hi everyone my name is Kenton covescu
I'm an ex-bcg consultant an ex-googler
and the founder of Rocket blocks an
online platform that helps candidates
prepare for interviews in today's rocket
blocks mock interview we've got an
awesome interview covering a scenario
where a government has hired a
consulting firm to help them figure out
if and how they should Implement free
Wi-Fi for all of their citizens it's a
really cool case and we've got two of
our rocket blocks experts Christopher
mcraham who's an ex-bcg project leader
playing the role of the interviewer and
the candidate is played by Matthew
Calvert who is another ex-bcg consultant
who actually has spent time working in
government as well in the U.S House of
Representatives so perfect set of
experience to walk through this type of
case and I'm really excited to see how
they work through it so let's go ahead
and drop it hi everyone this is a video
run through for the wireless City case
this is a very open-ended McKinsey style
case that covers some great
brainstorming and qualitative reasoning
activities it also has some Quantum the
mix it's a good one my name is
Christopher mcraehan and I'm going to be
leading the interview also with me is
Maddie Calvert who will be playing the
interview candidate so before we dive
into this case let's do some quick
intros so as I mentioned my name is
Chris and I'm a manager working at
renewable energy in New York doing
offshore wind with a company called
Energy re
before that I worked in management
consulting I was with BCG in the New
York office for three years
uh yeah with the last year of that time
as a project leader in bcg's climate
sustainability practice for that I was
at Accenture strategy in London also
working in energy for about a year so
overall I spent four years in management
consulting after finishing my MBA at
London Business School and before
business school I was an engineer in the
oil and gas industry Maddie do you want
to give a quick intro
absolutely thanks Chris so I'm Maddie
Calvert I'm currently working in
business development for a company
working to reduce methane emissions from
oil and gas companies called Kairos
Aerospace
prior to that I did teacher America in
Chicago
and then got my MBA and Matthew public
policy at Duke and worked as a
consultant for two years at BCG in
Chicago
all right that's great
so before diving into the case I'm going
to slightly simulate the case transition
that you might see in an interview and
ask a quick fit question so good to go
Maddie
yep let's do it all right let's dive in
so Maddie it's great to meet you I have
your CV in front of me uh it looks like
you have some great prior experience and
I just wanted to ask what are you hoping
to get out of your time in management
consulting
yeah that's a great question Chris so
before getting my MBA
um the majority of my work experience
has been as an elementary school teacher
and so for me working in Consulting is
going to give me the opportunity to see
a number of different Industries and
functional areas
um at a high you know High Pace to
figure out what it is that I I'd like to
specialize in while I'm working in
Consulting and also what I want to do
afterwards another thing that I'm
looking forward to is the opportunity to
continue working in a team
um majority of my work as a teacher has
been with a grade level group where
we're prac we're you know prepping
lessons for a number of students and
across different classes and this will
allow me to continue that teamwork
experience that I've really enjoyed thus
far
that's great I love it I had some
similar reasons myself I can relate
okay so ready to dive into the case
let's do it okay great here's the case
question
so our client is the government of a
large city so I would think of someone
like somewhere like Chicago New York or
L.A so they plan to provide free
wireless connection to all of their
residents by building Wi-Fi hotspots
covering the entire city
so they've hired the consulting firm to
help them determine whether or not they
should do it
great so let me just recap this really
quick Chris so we're working with the
city of Chicago who's interested in
rolling out a free Wi-Fi program for all
of the city's residents and they're
trying to just decide whether or not
they should do it is that correct
exactly yeah it's pretty open-ended okay
um apart from that sounds really
open-ended but is there a goal are they
trying to maximize a profit are they
trying to sorry excuse me a usage
anything like that or is it just what we
discussed
yeah basically just what they discussed
I would think of this as a pretty early
stage view of of the decision making so
there's no decision making criteria or
or or hurdles really like a hurdle right
or a check rate I I would just think
about this as you know maximizing Wi-Fi
for residents as the goal for this first
piece okay great that's really helpful
yeah the only other question I have is
uh is the city of Chicago considering
um just residents are they also
considering tourists
um as they make this decision
uh yeah it's it's a good question
um I think for now to keep it simple I
would probably just think about
residents but if there's a way you
wanted to build that into your your
thinking a framework it would be great
for you to have a recommendation on that
point
okay
that's really helpful do you mind giving
me a minute while I collect more
thoughts yeah absolutely
okay great
well I set this framework up pretty
simply it seems like it's a pretty uh
open-ended case
um in question and so
um I think we're gonna you know touch on
a number of these things throughout so
there's three main buckets that I was
thinking about the first one is just the
benefits
um who is this going to benefit and how
the second are the costs involved
and then third are there other
Alternatives the city should consider
instead of trying to roll out a free
Wi-Fi program
so in terms of benefits I'd be thinking
about the benefits to individuals I'd
also think how would a free Wi-Fi
program benefit the city commercially
and then third um I'm thinking about
city services
um sanitation snow removal things of
that nature how might this help optimize
those Services
um to the city's residents
next in terms of cost I'm thinking about
um what is the initial cost
um doing something like this would be
you know pretty pretty revolutionary at
least for a large city in the United
States
um so what's that initial cost gonna be
and then what does it cost to do this
ongoing
um and another thing is I'm thinking
about this is is the city well equipped
with its current Workforce and structure
to do this
and then finally in terms of
Alternatives I'm thinking
um is there another thing they could do
could they offer 4G or 5G uh Wireless
services for residents instead of doing
Wi-Fi
um so they offer some sort of prepaid
cards uh that residents could use
instead with various Wireless providers
that's kind of my thinking there
okay that makes sense
uh yeah I like all the buckets it seems
like a it's a very messy framework to me
so I I think we can use this to help
guide uh guide some questions thanks for
that okay
so the client likes the analysis
um they've actually done some research
and they finalize the details of how the
Wi-Fi hotspots operate so here's here's
some info for you on on how these things
work so each Wi-Fi hotspot can cover a
certain area
so when opened uh like any any Wi-Fi
capable device enters that area the
Wi-Fi hotspot will notice and begin to
trace its location right so there's a
tracking aspect here
the owner of the Wi-Fi device can log
into the wireless network for free using
a unique ID and password that gets
provided to them by the government of
the municipality
so once logged in the owner's name and
location will be traced by the the Wi-Fi
hotspot
okay so right so with with those details
in mind then can you can you think about
possible uses given the location the
time and the login ID data that's
collected by the Wi-Fi hotspots
absolutely
um so the first thing I'm thinking about
is
um traffic Network design
um how are you laying out the city
um if you're able to track
um devices including what type
um who owns the device you're going to
be able to understand the flow of people
um to a really detailed extent which can
help you
um set up traffic lights things of that
nature
um another thing I'm thinking about is
helping you set up
um transportation services so where
might you need more bus routes
um more trains running
um through the city
um another one is is
um urban planning and so uh are you
having tons of people who are moving
um to certain locations and you might
need
um want to look at building more Parks
um
real estate developers might think about
building more real estate in a certain
area
um another thing that I think would be
really valuable that the city could take
and to monetize and sell would be
location data so again if you have
certain areas of the city where you're
getting tons of people especially at a
certain age range or demographic
um that would be really helpful to
figure out uh what types of bars
restaurants stores to go into different
locations in the city
um you could also use that for push
advertisements
um so if you go to a certain part of the
city
um you're going to get an advertisement
for sweet green if you will or a Barry's
boot camp if you want to go to the gym
something of that nature
[Music]
okay no that's great that's great um I
think that covers a lot of
say the the day-to-day parts of
somebody's life say getting up and
commuting to the office or walking to
lunch are there any other considerations
you can think of Beyond some of those
day-to-day aspects
you know I think one thing and it's it's
kind of a Hot Topic especially in a lot
of large cities these days is crime
prevention and so
um if there's a crime committed in a
certain area and and
um it's traceable you'd be able to
figure out who was closest to that
um and maybe could they offer some
insight into what happened did they see
the crime committed
great yeah no I'm I'm glad you brought
that up why don't we talk about crime
prevention for uh for a little bit here
um it's it's come up quite a bit in some
of the meetings one government officer
suggested that when a crime is reported
the police can narrow down the suspect
by looking at the data of the nearby
Wi-Fi hotspot
what are your initial reactions to that
do you think that's a good idea
um well I think you know while that
could help in terms of of crime
prevention I think having
um that sort of data could open yourself
up to Legal challenges in terms of
Rights of privacy
um I think that could also
um if that data was hacked
um could expose
um the city up to liability and um a
lawsuit potentially
um and I also think it could make
residents maybe if they knew that this
is happening less liable or less likely
excuse me to to use this service so I
think that could really hurt
um the usage rates of this
okay yeah those are those are some of
the negatives and those are strong
points
um are there any pros you can think of
any any positive reasons for doing it
well I do think um it could potentially
help with solving crimes
um if people know that it's happening it
could also help with deterring crimes
potentially knowing that
um this sort of information is out there
um and it's a potentially interesting
experiment to see if um this does have a
market uh decrease or in crime rates or
even increase in in solving of crimes of
a certain type
um using you know an analysis of before
and after in the city
okay
um
yeah I mean if if we think about at an
individual level like if if somebody was
planning to commit a crime
um we've had this this thought that
maybe they would just disconnect from
the network or
um you know basically prevent this Wi-Fi
Hotspot from knowing their ID and their
location before they were going to do
anything what do you think
I think that's definitely a potential
um is a potential kind of downfall here
and I think another thing is
um there's pretty sophisticated methods
of circumventing these things
um whether you're using a VPN or another
technology of that sort and so
um to me it feels like the potential
downsides
um outweigh the potential upsides in
terms of really either people working
around it
um or people not trusting the government
the liability it opens up the government
to or just the you know decrease in
usage
got it no I I take the point it does
seem like there's a there's a lot of
risk associated with using it in that
way okay no that was really insightful
um why don't we shift gears a little bit
and we'll move away from from the
qualitative stuff and get to a bit of
math here
okay so the client has collected quotes
for the total cost of the project and
the best quote that came in was for 30
million dollars
uh so sort of Benchmark that the client
is looking to see how much the project
will cost if they were to install the
Wi-Fi hotspots by themselves okay so I
have a few numbers I want to give out to
here
so that the size of the city
is 40 by 25. so we can just think of
them as uh generic units for now so just
40 units by 25 units
each hotspot can cover a circular area
with a radius of five units
okay
so what the client wants is to be able
to cover a hundred percent of the city
area with these wallet spots there's no
there's no uh dead zones anywhere in the
city basically ever is covered
and we know that each Wi-Fi hotspot
costs roughly a million dollars okay
so with those data points in mind I'm
hoping you can do some math here and
just calculate do you think it's better
if the client installs the hot spots for
themselves or outsources it to this uh
this uh this Market participants saying
30 million dollars
okay
um before we jump in
um are there any other costs uh involved
in this is there an initial cost
um for starting this up
uh an ongoing cost and and what is the
cost of uh I guess yeah if those are
costs exist
yeah it's a good question I I would say
there's a an overall sort of fixed
overhead cost here of 20 million dollars
um just to to get things going I think
we can assume that in either case it'll
that that 20 million dollar cost will be
there so essentially we just need to
consider this one million dollar
variable cost per uh hotspot
installation
okay
great do you mind giving me just one
second and I'm going to kind of set up
my map here yeah no worries
okay
so if I'm thinking through this
um I wanna I wanna
um kind of break this down into into
smaller units so
four hot spots
um and I know that you know I'm thinking
about a square or a rectangular area and
circles
um to cover the entire geographic area
there's going to be have to be some
overlap there that's right we don't want
any gaps
and so if I think about breaking this 40
by 25 down a bit I can say that
an area
um covered by four hot spots
would take 10
times root 2 and 10 times root 2. that's
going to give me a square area
given
the radius and of the circles with
radius five
and so the 40 by 25 area
if I divide that the 40
by 14 is approximately that right number
I'm doing a little bit of rounding times
the 25 divided by 14.
that's going to require four of those
that I just described that 10 times root
2 to 10 times root 2 so the 40 divided
by 14 is about 3 the 25 divided by 14.
is about two
and that's four circles and so that
three times two times four is going to
give me about 24 hot spots
to cover the entire
um area and and granted there's going to
be some overlap here depending on where
you set that up
um so I'm going to say you know just to
be a little conservative we could say 25
um but it's going to be that 24 to 25
range that you're going to be required
um to cover the city and I'm looking at
24 25 hot spots 25 hot spots times 1
million per to set up so that's 25
million dollars unless the initial cost
of 20 million uh but that's the same on
both sides so we're trying to weigh the
difference between 25 million dollars
and setting this up
um by and run by the City versus three
million or 30 million dollars excuse me
for outsourcing
and so when I'm thinking about these two
options five million dollars is uh is
you know it's a 25 30 of this of this
cost right but to me I'm thinking that
Outsourcing this might be the better
option
um I have worked in city government
before and um I know what city
governments are really good at and what
city governments don't have as much
experience with and so for me I'm
thinking that Outsourcing this to a
vendor who specializes in setting up
Wi-Fi and managing networks could be a
better option however we'd also want to
think through how tight the budget is
and whether that five million dollars
pushes it uh off the table one way or
another
got it yeah that recommendation makes
sense to me I mean there's a financial
trade-off and if you're working in
government you do have a responsibility
to I guess maximize taxpayer benefits
but at the same time if you're incurring
a significant risk uh by taking on a
piece of work that you know your
organization doesn't specialize in then
that that can be seen as irresponsible
in itself that makes a lot of sense so
can you can you just please sum up
everything that we've talked about and
give a final recommendation here
absolutely so when I'm thinking through
whether or not to do this I think
there's a number of potential benefits
that we talked about I think in terms of
urban planning in terms of supporting
existing and new businesses in the city
um monitoring traffic and public
transportation there's tons of benefits
and this could really set the city up as
a unique unique way
um
in terms of the crime question I would
say I don't think it's worth it I think
it could really Drive usage rates down
and open up the city to liability
and then finally I would Outsource this
well I know that is an additional
probably five million dollars more
Outsourcing it to a company that
specializes in this will often uh offer
better service and more reliability and
allow the city to specialize in what
they're doing
um but I think this is overall a great
idea and will be a huge benefit for the
city
great that's awesome
hey everyone it's Kenton koveski here
the founder of Rocket blocks thank you
so much for watching this mock interview
video I hope you found it informative
and helpful as you are getting ready to
prepare for your own interviews and
hopefully Landing that job offer you are
excited about we have a ton of great
content on the rocket blocks Channel
coming out on a weekly basis mock
interviews mini lessons and chats with
our rocket blocks experts so if you
haven't subscribed yet already please do
so there is a big red button below and
if you hit that you'll get all of our
content as soon as it comes out thanks
for watching and have a great day